>> Erik: So,
the next section is the Observer API.
So, the Observer API is
interesting because this
API was born from the pain of engineers.
Because engineers had to create some
very hacky solutions to common problems.
So that's why the spec developers
they they saw this pain and
implemented the Observer API.
An Observer API is very different
comparing to traditional vent-based
functions, and we're gonna explore why.
So the Observer API has three main types.
The first one is intersection and
intersection observer is heavily used in
the virtualization pattern or in the lazy
components when you need to render
the component,
when the viewport reaches certain element.
Or we can also use it for analytics
to see what are the parts of websites
that are the most visible to the user.
And we can also build
some dynamic UI elements.
So the MutationObserver is very useful for
building text editors because
it allows us to track the changes in
the subtree in a very performant way.
It's also heavily used in drawing tools.
The Resize Observer helps us to track
the resize of the elements, and
it's heavily used in adaptive
design charting tools.
Where you have, for
instance, a trading app and
you have ten different charts, and
the resize observer can be used there
to update their toolbar as you
resize the specific element.
And it's also heavily
used in drawing tools.
So let starts start with
the intersection observer.
So if we look at how we track the
intersection before in vanilla JavaScript,
then you would query two elements,
A and B.
And then you would set up the interval,
for instance,
15 milliseconds, and then you would
calculate the coordinates and
try to see if these two
elements are intersecting.
So the issue of that is,
imagine that you have multiple
intersection observers set up on the page.
This would lead to performance degradation
because our callback queue will basically
work only for the observers.
So that's why the intersection
observer was created.
The idea of intersection
observer is to track
the intersection with the target element.
So the first important
property is the target.
So basically the element
that we're tracking.
So the single observer can track
multiple elements on the page, so
the observer itself is very reusable.
Then we can also set up the root container
that we are tracking intersection against.
So by default it's a viewport, but
you can also tell the observer a specific
container that you're interested in.
So one additional property
is the threshold.
It's basically the ratio,
how much the element should be intersected
before we fire the asynchronous callback.
And also, the callback is the basically
asynchronous function, and
we implement this function
as the as developers.
So the difference with this observer is.
The intersection event is tracked on the
native level instead of the event level.
This means that it has
much better performance.
On average, intersection observers perform
50 times faster than the vanilla approach.
That's why it's pretty safe to
use it in the production apps.
So the API of Intersection Observer
is very simple.
To create the Intersection Observer,
we just need to use its constructor,
its constructor accepts two parameters.
The first one is the callback and the
second one is the configuration object.
The configuration object has two main
properties, which is one root allows us to
select the container that we're
tracking intersection against.
The threshold,
basically the ratio of intersection.
And the callback accepts two parameters.
One is entries,
which is the array of entries that
they are currently intersecting.
And the callback is
triggered in two cases.
The first one when the target
element intersects and
the second one when
the intersection is stopped.
That's why we have the special property
called isIntersecting to tell us
if the entry is intersecting.
We have the array instead of having
a single element in the callback,
we actually have an array because
we may have multiple entries,
being intersected in a single event.
And then to observe the element,
we need to call the observe function and
provide the target element.